# Soil Parameters Selection (SPS)

Decision Support System to support the decision making of landslide soil parameters.

## Description

The SPS is a Decision Support System that supports the selection of the soil parameters (cohesion and friction angle) of landslides comparing the landslide monitoring system composed by GPS banchmarks and inclinometers and the three-dimensional models of the landslide generated by the use of FLAC3D software. The DSS select the best combination of soil parameters from a pool of admissible modeled solutions (perm_16.20_SS14.20.log) generated with FLAC3D by the permutation of the landslide soil parameters.

## Installation

Soil parameters selection cannot requires installation, it can be used downloading this repository, unzipping the file in the work folder. The scripts have been implemented in python 2.7 and can be used compiling the startup.py file.

## Content

The repository contains:
- main.py : the python class of the DSS
- startup.py : the compilers
- myscript.sh : the data reader
- README.md : tool description
- LICENSE.txt
- test : folder with the data examples to test the usage of the DSS

## Usage

The use of the SPS follow the generation of the modeled displacements by FLAC3D analysis using different combination af the soil parameters (cohesion and friction angle of the landslide body and of the slip surface SS).
To test the use of the tool, you can use the test folder which contains all the data required by the tool:

From FLAC3D.
- centroid.csv : FLAC3D output from numerical recostruction of the landslide by nxn cells.
- grid.csv : FLAC3D output from numerical recostruction of the landslide by nxn cells.
- perm/perm_16.20_SS14.20.log : 16 cohesion, 20 friction angle, 14 cohesion of the Slip Surface, 20 friction angle of the Slip Surface.

These files contained in [test](./test) folder are only for example to see the structure of the file. They are not useable because of they have been randomly generated and modified from the original version. To generate the useable centroid.csv, grid.csv and perm_16.20_SS14.20.log see the User Manual of FLAC3D.
The perm folder lists all the displacements of all the possible permutation of the soil parameters. The DSS select from this list the best configurations.

From monitoring system
- DEM.tif : Digital Elevation Model used in FLAC3D for the landslide modeling
- GPS0/001.txt : monitored GPS banchmarks at time 0, format: |x|y|z|, named: 001.txt, 002.txt,...
- GPS1/001.txt : monitored GPS banchmarks at time 1, format: |x|y|z|, named: 001.txt, 002.txt,...
- Inclinometer/001.txt : monitored inclinometers, format: |x|y|z|depth|x displacement|y dispacemet|, named: 001.txt, 002.txt,...

The workflow to use the tool is
1. open the startup.py file and complete all the paths required
2. launch the script startup.py from the command window (cmd) >> cd /to/the/startup.py/folder
                                                              >> python ./startup.py

## Credits

Giacomo Titti and Giulia Bossi, CNR-IRPI, Padova, Sept. 2018 (giacomo.titti@irpi.cnr.it)

## License

The Soil Parameters Selection (SPS) code is released under a GNU General Public License v3.0
